Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in a previous example we specified a particular item that was out-of-stock.
So we specified that pens were out of stock but doesn't mention there will come a time when we're able
to pull in or out of stock items from another list.
So in this example we're going to use to list a list of items in our shopping cart and a list of I and
a list about the stock items.
So as you can see here I've started off some comments and that created two tulis.
So go ahead and create those lists now.
OK.
In the example to come each item in a shopping cart is checked against our list of out-of-stock items.
So let's take a look at how we do that we have to list our first list is our in-stock items on our second
list is our shopping cart.
So as you can see here our user has requested orange post-its which is not in our in-stock list.
So let's get meet ever code of our program running.
So for item in shopping cart
inside the loop we first check to see if each item our user wants to buy is in-stock if item in in-stock
if the item is in stock.
We print the message like in the last lecture which tells the user that we're adding the item to the
list.
Print
plus item plus to your order.
Perfect.
Close that off.
Else print
sorry plus item plus OpenTable quote is not in stock
close that off and we finish up with a print statement print your order is complete.
OK.
There we go.
So let's have a look what we've done.
First we've Crighton in-stock list which contains three items.
Blue pens paper and staples.
Next we have our users shopping cart and they've opted to buy blue pants paper staples and orange Post-its.
Plus we know orange post-its are not in our stock list for block.
We have four item in our shopping cart so for each item in our shopping cart do the following.
If the item is in our in-stock list print adding the item to your order else.
So if the item is not in stock list print sorry item is not in stock when our 4 block is complete.
We run our print statement here which says your order is complete.
So let's say this and then run it.
Here we go adding blue pens you order adding paper to your order.
Staples your order.
Sorry orange post that is not in stock.
Your order is complete.
Perfect.
So there we have an example of how we can use multiple lists in our programs.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.